docs/LWIP_MODIFICATIONS.md, before:

# LWIP Modifications and Configuration Changes Documentation

## Overview

This document provides a comprehensive record of all modifications made to the LWIP stack and configuration changes for the ESP32-P4 OpENer EtherNet/IP project. These changes include RFC 5227 compliance implementation, performance optimizations, and task affinity configurations.

**ESP-IDF Version**: v5.5.1  
**LWIP Component Path**: `components/lwip/` (local override)

---

## Table of Contents

1. [LWIP Source Code Modifications](#lwip-source-code-modifications)
2. [Configuration Changes (sdkconfig)](#configuration-changes-sdkconfig)
3. [Build Configuration Changes](#build-configuration-changes)
4. [ACD Timing Configuration](#acd-timing-configuration)
5. [Task Affinity Configuration](#task-affinity-configuration)
6. [Summary of Changes](#summary-of-changes)

---

## LWIP Source Code Modifications

### Modified Files

#### `lwip/src/include/lwip/acd.h`

**File Path**: `components/lwip/lwip/src/include/lwip/acd.h` (local component override)

**Changes Made**:

1. **Added Forward Declaration for etharp_hdr** (around line 49-51):
   ```c
   /* Forward declare struct etharp_hdr to avoid circular dependency */
   struct etharp_hdr;
   ```

2. **Removed Direct Include of etharp.h**: Replaced with forward declaration to break circular dependency.

**Rationale**: Breaks circular dependencies.

---

#### `lwip/src/core/ipv4/acd.c`

**File Path**: `components/lwip/lwip/src/core/ipv4/acd.c`

**Changes Made**:

1. **Added Includes** (around line 73-78):
   ```c
   #include "lwip/etharp.h"  /* Need full definition of struct etharp_hdr for acd_arp_reply */
   ```

2. **Modified Conflict Handling** (in `acd_handle_arp_conflict()`):
   - Added RFC 5227 compliant conflict detection
   - Removes IP address when conflict detected for static IPs
   - Calls user callback with conflict state

3. **Fixed Self-Conflict Detection Bug** (in `acd_arp_reply()`):
   - Added MAC address comparison to prevent false conflicts from looped-back ARP probes
   - RFC 5227 Section 2.2.1 requires ignoring own packets - now properly implemented
   - Probe conflict detection now requires both IP match AND differing sender MAC
   - Prevents spurious probe sequence restarts when Ethernet MAC reflects own broadcasts

4. **Disabled ACD Diagnostic Logging**:
   - Changed `ACD_DIAG` macro to no-op: `#define ACD_DIAG(fmt, ...) ((void)0)`
   - Modified `acd_log_mac()` to be a no-op to suppress unused variable warnings
   - Reduces log noise while keeping conflict detection logs

5. **Active IP Defense Implementation**:
   - Added periodic defensive ARP probes in `ACD_STATE_ONGOING`
   - Defensive probes use source IP = 0.0.0.0 (matching Rockwell PLC behavior)
   - Interval configurable via `CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PERIODIC_DEFEND_INTERVAL_MS` (configured: 90000 ms = 90 seconds)
   - Implemented in `acd_tmr()` function

6. **EtherNet/IP Conflict Reporting Integration**:
   - Added forward declarations for OpENer functions (`CipTcpIpSetLastAcdMac`, `CipTcpIpSetLastAcdRawData`)
   - Calls these functions at conflict detection points to populate EtherNet/IP Attribute #11
   - Captures MAC address and raw ARP frame data for diagnostic purposes

7. **Natural State Machine Flow**:
   - The ACD state machine naturally transitions: PROBE_WAIT → PROBING → ANNOUNCE_WAIT → ANNOUNCING → ONGOING
   - The `ACD_IP_OK` callback fires **after** the announce phase completes (when transitioning to ONGOING state)
   - The application (`main/main.c`) does not manually stop/restart ACD - it relies on the natural state machine transition
   - This ensures the probe sequence completes correctly without interference

8. **Callback Tracking Fix** (in `main/main.c`):
   - Added `s_acd_callback_received` flag to distinguish between actual callback events and timeout conditions
   - Prevents false positive conflict detection when semaphore timeout occurs (probe sequence still running)
   - Timeout returns `true` (no conflict, waiting for callback) vs `false` (actual conflict detected)
   - IP assignment occurs in callback when `ACD_IP_OK` fires, ensuring probes complete before IP assignment
   - Caller checks `s_acd_callback_received` before treating timeout as conflict

**Rationale**: Implements RFC 5227 compliant behavior - IP assigned only after ACD confirms safety, removed on conflict. Adds active defense and EtherNet/IP integration. Uses natural state machine flow to avoid interfering with probe sequence. Prevents false positive conflict detection through callback tracking.

---

#### `lwip/src/core/netif.c`

**File Path**: `components/lwip/lwip/src/core/netif.c` (local component override)

**Changes Made**:

1. **Added ACD Include** (around line 83-85):
   ```c
   #if LWIP_ACD
   #include "lwip/acd.h"
   #endif /* LWIP_ACD */
   ```

**Rationale**: Enables ACD functionality in netif module.

---

#### `lwip/src/include/lwip/prot/acd.h`

**File Path**: `components/lwip/lwip/src/include/lwip/prot/acd.h` (local component override)

**Changes Made**:

1. **Made ACD Timing Constants Configurable** (around line 45-90):
   - Wrapped all timing constants with `#ifndef` guards
   - Allows override in `lwipopts.h` for protocol-specific requirements (e.g., EtherNet/IP)
   - Constants made configurable via ESP-IDF Kconfig (values are in milliseconds):
     - `PROBE_WAIT` (configured: 200 ms via `CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PROBE_WAIT_MS`)
     - `PROBE_MIN` (configured: 200 ms via `CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PROBE_MIN_MS`)
     - `PROBE_MAX` (configured: 200 ms via `CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PROBE_MAX_MS`)
     - `PROBE_NUM` (configured: 3 packets via `CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PROBE_NUM`)
     - `ANNOUNCE_NUM` (configured: 4 packets via `CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_ANNOUNCE_NUM`)
     - `ANNOUNCE_INTERVAL` (configured: 2000 ms via `CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_ANNOUNCE_INTERVAL_MS`)
     - `ANNOUNCE_WAIT` (configured: 2000 ms via `CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_ANNOUNCE_WAIT_MS`)
     - `DEFEND_INTERVAL` (configured: 90000 ms via `CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PERIODIC_DEFEND_INTERVAL_MS`)

**Rationale**: Enables EtherNet/IP and other protocols to override RFC 5227 default timings as needed.

---

#### `port/include/lwipopts.h`

**File Path**: `components/lwip/port/include/lwipopts.h` (local component override)

**Changes Made**:

1. **Added Documentation for ACD Timing Override** (around line 310-324):
   ```c
   /**
    * Note: ACD timing constants (PROBE_WAIT, PROBE_MIN, PROBE_MAX, PROBE_NUM,
    * ANNOUNCE_NUM, ANNOUNCE_INTERVAL, ANNOUNCE_WAIT, DEFEND_INTERVAL) can be
    * overridden in lwipopts.h for protocol-specific requirements. For example,
    * EtherNet/IP uses different timings than RFC 5227. Define these constants
    * before including this file to override the defaults.
    */
   ```

**Rationale**: Documents how to override ACD timings for protocol-specific requirements.

---

## Configuration Changes (sdkconfig)

### Performance Optimizations

#### Socket and Connection Limits

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Modified | Rationale |
|--------------|-----------------|----------|-----------|
| `CONFIG_LWIP_MAX_SOCKETS` | 10 | **64** | Increased for EtherNet/IP multiple connections |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_MAX_ACTIVE_TCP` | 16 | **64** | Support more concurrent TCP connections |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_MAX_LISTENING_TCP` | 16 | **32** | More listening sockets for EtherNet/IP services |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_MAX_UDP_PCBS` | 16 | **128** | Increased UDP support for EtherNet/IP messaging |

#### Buffer and Reassembly Settings

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Modified | Rationale |
|--------------|-----------------|----------|-----------|
| `CONFIG_LWIP_IP_REASS_MAX_PBUFS` | 10 | **20** | More IP fragment reassembly buffers |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_LOOPBACK_MAX_PBUFS` | 8 | **16** | Increased loopback buffer capacity |

#### TCP Buffer Sizes

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Modified | Rationale |
|--------------|-----------------|----------|-----------|
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCP_SND_BUF_DEFAULT` | 5760 | **32768** | Larger send buffer for better throughput |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCP_WND_DEFAULT` | 5760 | **32768** | Larger receive window for better performance |

#### Mailbox Sizes

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Modified | Rationale |
|--------------|-----------------|----------|-----------|
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_RECVMBOX_SIZE` | 32 | **64** | Larger TCP/IP task mailbox for message handling |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCP_RECVMBOX_SIZE` | 6 | **64** | TCP receive mailbox for better concurrency |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCP_ACCEPTMBOX_SIZE` | 6 | **16** | More pending TCP accept connections |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_UDP_RECVMBOX_SIZE` | 6 | **128** | Increased UDP receive mailbox for EtherNet/IP messaging |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCP_OOSEQ_MAX_PBUFS` | 4 | **12** | More out-of-sequence TCP packet buffers |

#### Task Configuration

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Modified | Rationale |
|--------------|-----------------|----------|-----------|
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_TASK_STACK_SIZE` | 3072 | **8192** | Increased stack for OpENer and ACD processing |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_TASK_PRIO` | 18 | **12** | Adjusted priority for EtherNet/IP requirements |

### Task Affinity Configuration

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Modified | Rationale |
|--------------|-----------------|----------|-----------|
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_TASK_AFFINITY_NO_AFFINITY` | y (default) | **n** | Disabled no-affinity mode |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_TASK_AFFINITY_CPU0` | n (default) | **y** | Pin LWIP TCP/IP task to Core 0 |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_TASK_AFFINITY` | 0x7FFFFFFF (no affinity) | **0x0** | Explicit Core 0 affinity |

**Rationale**: Pins LWIP TCP/IP task to Core 0, leaving Core 1 available for other hardware interfaces and OpENer processing.

### IRAM Optimization

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Modified | Rationale |
|--------------|-----------------|----------|-----------|
| `CONFIG_LWIP_IRAM_OPTIMIZATION` | n | **y** | Places RX/TX functions in IRAM (~10KB) |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_EXTRA_IRAM_OPTIMIZATION` | n | **y** | Places TCP functions in IRAM (~17KB) |

**Total IRAM Usage**: ~27KB for LWIP optimizations

**Rationale**: Improves network performance by avoiding flash cache misses, especially important for real-time EtherNet/IP communication.

### ACD and DHCP Configuration

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Modified | Rationale |
|--------------|-----------------|----------|-----------|
| `CONFIG_LWIP_DHCP_DOES_ACD_CHECK` | n (default: ARP check) | **y** | Enable ACD checking for DHCP-assigned addresses |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_AUTOIP` | n | **y** | Required for ACD support |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_AUTOIP_MAX_CONFLICTS` | 9 | **9** | No change (ESP-IDF default) |

### Other Configuration

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Modified | Rationale |
|--------------|-----------------|----------|-----------|
| `CONFIG_LWIP_SO_REUSE` | y | **y** | No change (ESP-IDF default) |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_SO_REUSE_RXTOALL` | y | **y** | No change (ESP-IDF default) |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_STATS` | n | **y** | Enable statistics for debugging |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_ESP_GRATUITOUS_ARP` | y | **y** | No change (ESP-IDF default) |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_NETIF_LOOPBACK` | y | **y** | No change (ESP-IDF default) |

---

## Build Configuration Changes

### CMakeLists.txt

**File Path**: `CMakeLists.txt` (project root)

**Changes Made**:

1. **Added FD_SETSIZE Definition** (around line 30-34):
   ```cmake
   # Define FD_SETSIZE for LWIP_MAX_SOCKETS=64
   # LWIP_SOCKET_OFFSET = FD_SETSIZE - MAX_SOCKETS, and we need LWIP_SOCKET_OFFSET >= 6
   # So FD_SETSIZE >= MAX_SOCKETS + 6 = 64 + 6 = 70
   # Also need room for stdout, stderr, stdin (+3), so use 73 for safety
   add_compile_definitions(FD_SETSIZE=73)
   ```

**Rationale**: Required when `LWIP_MAX_SOCKETS > 61`. Ensures sufficient file descriptor space for sockets and console I/O. Without this, build fails with static assertion error.

**Impact**: 
- `LWIP_SOCKET_OFFSET = 73 - 64 = 9` (meets >= 6 requirement)
- File descriptors 0-8 reserved for non-socket descriptors
- File descriptors 9-72 available for LWIP sockets

---

## ACD Timing Configuration

### Configured ACD Timings

All ACD timing constants are configurable via ESP-IDF Kconfig. Current configured values (can be optimized for EtherNet/IP):

| Constant | Value (ms) | Equivalent | Description |
|----------|------------|------------|-------------|
| `PROBE_WAIT` | 200 | 0.2 seconds | Initial random delay before probing (`CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PROBE_WAIT_MS`) |
| `PROBE_MIN` | 200 | 0.2 seconds | Minimum delay between probe packets (`CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PROBE_MIN_MS`) |
| `PROBE_MAX` | 200 | 0.2 seconds | Maximum delay between probe packets (`CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PROBE_MAX_MS`) |
| `PROBE_NUM` | 3 | packets | Number of probe packets to send (`CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PROBE_NUM`) |
| `ANNOUNCE_WAIT` | 2000 | 2 seconds | Delay before announcing (`CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_ANNOUNCE_WAIT_MS`) |
| `ANNOUNCE_NUM` | 4 | packets | Number of announcement packets (`CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_ANNOUNCE_NUM`) |
| `ANNOUNCE_INTERVAL` | 2000 | 2 seconds | Time between announcement packets (`CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_ANNOUNCE_INTERVAL_MS`) |
| `DEFEND_INTERVAL` | 90000 | 90 seconds | Minimum interval between defensive ARPs (`CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PERIODIC_DEFEND_INTERVAL_MS`) |

**Note**: These values are optimized for EtherNet/IP and differ from RFC 5227 defaults (which use 1000 ms for probe intervals and 2 packets for announcements).

### Configuration via ESP-IDF Kconfig

Timing values are configured via ESP-IDF Kconfig options (accessible via `idf.py menuconfig` under "OpENer Configuration" → "ACD Configuration"). Values are specified in milliseconds.

**Current Configuration**:
- Probe intervals: 200 ms (faster than RFC 5227 default of 1000 ms)
- Announcements: 4 packets (more than RFC 5227 default of 2 packets)
- Defend interval: 90 seconds (longer than RFC 5227 default of 10 seconds)

**Rationale**: These values are optimized for EtherNet/IP requirements:
- Faster probe intervals (200 ms) reduce IP assignment time
- More announcements (4 packets) improve network visibility
- Longer defend interval (90 seconds) matches Rockwell PLC behavior and reduces network traffic

---

## Task Affinity Configuration

### LWIP TCP/IP Task

**Configuration**: Pinned to Core 0

**Settings**:
- `CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_TASK_AFFINITY_CPU0=y`
- `CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_TASK_AFFINITY=0x0`

**Rationale**: 
- Centralizes network processing on one core
- Reduces inter-core communication overhead
- Leaves Core 1 available for other tasks

### OpENer Task

**Configuration**: Pinned to Core 0 (via code modification)

**File**: `components/opener/src/ports/ESP32/opener.c`

**Change**: Modified task creation to use `xTaskCreatePinnedToCore()`:

```c
BaseType_t result = xTaskCreatePinnedToCore(opener_thread,
                                             "OpENer",
                                             OPENER_STACK_SIZE,
                                             netif,
                                             OPENER_THREAD_PRIO,
                                             &opener_task_handle,
                                             0);  // Core 0
```

**Rationale**: 
- Keeps EtherNet/IP stack and OpENer on same core
- Reduces context switching overhead
- Improves cache locality for network operations

---

## Summary of Changes

### Files Modified in LWIP Source Tree

1. ✅ **MODIFIED**: `lwip/src/include/lwip/acd.h`
2. ✅ **MODIFIED**: `lwip/src/core/ipv4/acd.c`
3. ✅ **MODIFIED**: `lwip/src/core/netif.c`
4. ✅ **MODIFIED**: `lwip/src/include/lwip/prot/acd.h`
5. ✅ **MODIFIED**: `port/include/lwipopts.h`

### Configuration Summary

#### Performance Increases (ESP-IDF Default → Configured)

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Configured | Increase |
|---------------|-----------------|------------|----------|
| **Sockets** (`CONFIG_LWIP_MAX_SOCKETS`) | 10 | 64 | +540% |
| **Active TCP** (`CONFIG_LWIP_MAX_ACTIVE_TCP`) | 16 | 64 | +300% |
| **Listening TCP** (`CONFIG_LWIP_MAX_LISTENING_TCP`) | 16 | 32 | +100% |
| **UDP PCBs** (`CONFIG_LWIP_MAX_UDP_PCBS`) | 16 | 128 | +700% |
| **TCP Send Buffer** (`CONFIG_LWIP_TCP_SND_BUF_DEFAULT`) | 5760 bytes | 32768 bytes | +469% |
| **TCP Window** (`CONFIG_LWIP_TCP_WND_DEFAULT`) | 5760 bytes | 32768 bytes | +469% |
| **TCP/IP Stack** (`CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_TASK_STACK_SIZE`) | 3072 bytes | 8192 bytes | +167% |

#### Mailbox Increases (ESP-IDF Default → Configured)

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Configured | Increase |
|---------------|-----------------|------------|----------|
| **TCP/IP Recv** (`CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_RECVMBOX_SIZE`) | 32 | 64 | +100% |
| **TCP Recv** (`CONFIG_LWIP_TCP_RECVMBOX_SIZE`) | 6 | 64 | +967% |
| **TCP Accept** (`CONFIG_LWIP_TCP_ACCEPTMBOX_SIZE`) | 6 | 16 | +167% |
| **UDP Recv** (`CONFIG_LWIP_UDP_RECVMBOX_SIZE`) | 6 | 128 | +2033% |
| **TCP OOSEQ** (`CONFIG_LWIP_TCP_OOSEQ_MAX_PBUFS`) | 4 | 12 | +200% |

#### Buffer Increases (ESP-IDF Default → Configured)

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Configured | Increase |
|---------------|-----------------|------------|----------|
| **IP Reassembly** (`CONFIG_LWIP_IP_REASS_MAX_PBUFS`) | 10 | 20 | +100% |
| **Loopback** (`CONFIG_LWIP_LOOPBACK_MAX_PBUFS`) | 8 | 16 | +100% |

#### New Features

- ✅ Configurable ACD timings
- ✅ Task affinity control (Core 0)
- ✅ IRAM optimization enabled
- ✅ Active IP defense with periodic ARP probes
- ✅ EtherNet/IP conflict reporting integration
- ✅ Reduced ACD diagnostic logging (conflicts only)

### Build Requirements

- **FD_SETSIZE**: Must be >= 70 when `LWIP_MAX_SOCKETS=64`
- **Current Setting**: `FD_SETSIZE=73` (defined in `CMakeLists.txt`)

### Backward Compatibility

- ✅ All changes are backward compatible
- ✅ ACD timing overrides are optional

---

## Verification

### Build Verification

1. **FD_SETSIZE Check**: Build should complete without static assertion errors
2. **ACD Compilation**: Verify `LWIP_ACD=1` in build output

### Runtime Verification

1. **Task Affinity**: Check that LWIP and OpENer tasks run on Core 0
2. **ACD Functionality**: Test static IP assignment with ACD enabled
3. **Performance**: Monitor network throughput and latency

### Configuration Verification

```bash
# Check sdkconfig values
grep "CONFIG_LWIP" sdkconfig | grep -E "(MAX_|SIZE|STACK)"

# Check build configuration
grep "LWIP_ACD" build/config/sdkconfig.h
grep "FD_SETSIZE" build/config/sdkconfig.h
```

---

## References

- **RFC 5227**: IPv4 Address Conflict Detection - https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5227
- **EtherNet/IP Conflict Reporting**: See `docs/ACD_CONFLICT_REPORTING.md` for implementation details
- **ACD Testing Guide**: `ReadmeACD.md` (if present)

---

## Maintenance Notes

### Upgrading ESP-IDF

When upgrading ESP-IDF, these modifications will need to be reapplied:

1. **Source Code Changes**: All files in `components/lwip/` directory
2. **Configuration**: `sdkconfig` file (can be merged/updated)
3. **Build Config**: `CMakeLists.txt` (FD_SETSIZE definition)

### Recommended Approach

1. **Component Override**: Current approach uses `components/lwip/` local override
   - Modifications persist across ESP-IDF updates
   - No need to reapply patches to ESP-IDF installation
   - All modifications are documented in this file
2. **Version Compatibility**: Document any ESP-IDF version-specific changes
3. **Testing**: Test thoroughly after ESP-IDF upgrades
4. **Manual Reapplication**: When upgrading ESP-IDF, manually reapply modifications by following the code changes documented in this file

---

**Document Version**: 1.0  
**Status**: Current Implementation  
**Project**: ESP32-P4 OpENer EtherNet/IP Stack

Commit message:

Fix GP8403 DAC data format and optimize I2C bus performance
GP8403 DAC:
- Fixed critical 12-bit data format bug (correct byte manipulation)
- Write-on-change optimization to reduce I2C traffic
- Increased polling interval to 50ms
- Updated documentation with correct format

I2C Bus Stability:
- Removed task pinning from all I2C manager tasks
- Allows FreeRTOS to distribute tasks across both cores
- Eliminates I2C bus contention errors
- MCP230XX manager now writes only on changes

Code Quality:
- Fixed all compiler warnings
- Reduced serial logging verbosity
- Updated documentation (GP8403, LSM6DS3 README, assembly layout)

All changes tested and validated. System now stable with no I2C errors.

docs/LWIP_MODIFICATIONS.md, after:

# LWIP Modifications and Configuration Changes Documentation

## Overview

This document provides a comprehensive record of all modifications made to the LWIP stack and configuration changes for the ESP32-P4 OpENer EtherNet/IP project. These changes include RFC 5227 compliance implementation, performance optimizations, and task affinity configurations.

**ESP-IDF Version**: v5.5.1  
**LWIP Component Path**: `components/lwip/` (local override)

---

## Table of Contents

1. [LWIP Source Code Modifications](#lwip-source-code-modifications)
2. [Configuration Changes (sdkconfig)](#configuration-changes-sdkconfig)
3. [Build Configuration Changes](#build-configuration-changes)
4. [ACD Timing Configuration](#acd-timing-configuration)
5. [Task Affinity Configuration](#task-affinity-configuration)
6. [Summary of Changes](#summary-of-changes)

---

## LWIP Source Code Modifications

### Modified Files

#### `lwip/src/include/lwip/acd.h`

**File Path**: `components/lwip/lwip/src/include/lwip/acd.h` (local component override)

**Changes Made**:

1. **Added Forward Declaration for etharp_hdr** (around line 49-51):
   ```c
   /* Forward declare struct etharp_hdr to avoid circular dependency */
   struct etharp_hdr;
   ```

2. **Removed Direct Include of etharp.h**: Replaced with forward declaration to break circular dependency.

**Rationale**: Breaks circular dependencies.

---

#### `lwip/src/core/ipv4/acd.c`

**File Path**: `components/lwip/lwip/src/core/ipv4/acd.c`

**Changes Made**:

1. **Added Includes** (around line 73-78):
   ```c
   #include "lwip/etharp.h"  /* Need full definition of struct etharp_hdr for acd_arp_reply */
   ```

2. **Modified Conflict Handling** (in `acd_handle_arp_conflict()`):
   - Added RFC 5227 compliant conflict detection
   - Removes IP address when conflict detected for static IPs
   - Calls user callback with conflict state

3. **Fixed Self-Conflict Detection Bug** (in `acd_arp_reply()`):
   - Added MAC address comparison to prevent false conflicts from looped-back ARP probes
   - RFC 5227 Section 2.2.1 requires ignoring own packets - now properly implemented
   - Probe conflict detection now requires both IP match AND differing sender MAC
   - Prevents spurious probe sequence restarts when Ethernet MAC reflects own broadcasts

4. **Disabled ACD Diagnostic Logging**:
   - Changed `ACD_DIAG` macro to no-op: `#define ACD_DIAG(fmt, ...) ((void)0)`
   - Modified `acd_log_mac()` to be a no-op to suppress unused variable warnings
   - Reduces log noise while keeping conflict detection logs

5. **Active IP Defense Implementation**:
   - Added periodic defensive ARP probes in `ACD_STATE_ONGOING`
   - Defensive probes use source IP = 0.0.0.0 (matching Rockwell PLC behavior)
   - Interval configurable via `CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PERIODIC_DEFEND_INTERVAL_MS` (configured: 90000 ms = 90 seconds)
   - Implemented in `acd_tmr()` function

6. **EtherNet/IP Conflict Reporting Integration**:
   - Added forward declarations for OpENer functions (`CipTcpIpSetLastAcdMac`, `CipTcpIpSetLastAcdRawData`)
   - Calls these functions at conflict detection points to populate EtherNet/IP Attribute #11
   - Captures MAC address and raw ARP frame data for diagnostic purposes

7. **Natural State Machine Flow**:
   - The ACD state machine naturally transitions: PROBE_WAIT → PROBING → ANNOUNCE_WAIT → ANNOUNCING → ONGOING
   - The `ACD_IP_OK` callback fires **after** the announce phase completes (when transitioning to ONGOING state)
   - The application (`main/main.c`) does not manually stop/restart ACD - it relies on the natural state machine transition
   - This ensures the probe sequence completes correctly without interference

8. **Callback Tracking Fix** (in `main/main.c`):
   - Added `s_acd_callback_received` flag to distinguish between actual callback events and timeout conditions
   - Prevents false positive conflict detection when semaphore timeout occurs (probe sequence still running)
   - Timeout returns `true` (no conflict, waiting for callback) vs `false` (actual conflict detected)
   - IP assignment occurs in callback when `ACD_IP_OK` fires, ensuring probes complete before IP assignment
   - Caller checks `s_acd_callback_received` before treating timeout as conflict

**Rationale**: Implements RFC 5227 compliant behavior - IP assigned only after ACD confirms safety, removed on conflict. Adds active defense and EtherNet/IP integration. Uses natural state machine flow to avoid interfering with probe sequence. Prevents false positive conflict detection through callback tracking.

---

#### `lwip/src/core/netif.c`

**File Path**: `components/lwip/lwip/src/core/netif.c` (local component override)

**Changes Made**:

1. **Added ACD Include** (around line 83-85):
   ```c
   #if LWIP_ACD
   #include "lwip/acd.h"
   #endif /* LWIP_ACD */
   ```

**Rationale**: Enables ACD functionality in netif module.

---

#### `lwip/src/include/lwip/prot/acd.h`

**File Path**: `components/lwip/lwip/src/include/lwip/prot/acd.h` (local component override)

**Changes Made**:

1. **Made ACD Timing Constants Configurable** (around line 45-90):
   - Wrapped all timing constants with `#ifndef` guards
   - Allows override in `lwipopts.h` for protocol-specific requirements (e.g., EtherNet/IP)
   - Constants made configurable via ESP-IDF Kconfig (values are in milliseconds):
     - `PROBE_WAIT` (configured: 200 ms via `CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PROBE_WAIT_MS`)
     - `PROBE_MIN` (configured: 200 ms via `CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PROBE_MIN_MS`)
     - `PROBE_MAX` (configured: 200 ms via `CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PROBE_MAX_MS`)
     - `PROBE_NUM` (configured: 3 packets via `CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PROBE_NUM`)
     - `ANNOUNCE_NUM` (configured: 4 packets via `CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_ANNOUNCE_NUM`)
     - `ANNOUNCE_INTERVAL` (configured: 2000 ms via `CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_ANNOUNCE_INTERVAL_MS`)
     - `ANNOUNCE_WAIT` (configured: 2000 ms via `CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_ANNOUNCE_WAIT_MS`)
     - `DEFEND_INTERVAL` (configured: 90000 ms via `CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PERIODIC_DEFEND_INTERVAL_MS`)

**Rationale**: Enables EtherNet/IP and other protocols to override RFC 5227 default timings as needed.

---

#### `port/include/lwipopts.h`

**File Path**: `components/lwip/port/include/lwipopts.h` (local component override)

**Changes Made**:

1. **Added Documentation for ACD Timing Override** (around line 310-324):
   ```c
   /**
    * Note: ACD timing constants (PROBE_WAIT, PROBE_MIN, PROBE_MAX, PROBE_NUM,
    * ANNOUNCE_NUM, ANNOUNCE_INTERVAL, ANNOUNCE_WAIT, DEFEND_INTERVAL) can be
    * overridden in lwipopts.h for protocol-specific requirements. For example,
    * EtherNet/IP uses different timings than RFC 5227. Define these constants
    * before including this file to override the defaults.
    */
   ```

**Rationale**: Documents how to override ACD timings for protocol-specific requirements.

---

## Configuration Changes (sdkconfig)

### Performance Optimizations

#### Socket and Connection Limits

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Modified | Rationale |
|--------------|-----------------|----------|-----------|
| `CONFIG_LWIP_MAX_SOCKETS` | 10 | **64** | Increased for EtherNet/IP multiple connections |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_MAX_ACTIVE_TCP` | 16 | **64** | Support more concurrent TCP connections |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_MAX_LISTENING_TCP` | 16 | **32** | More listening sockets for EtherNet/IP services |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_MAX_UDP_PCBS` | 16 | **128** | Increased UDP support for EtherNet/IP messaging |

#### Buffer and Reassembly Settings

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Modified | Rationale |
|--------------|-----------------|----------|-----------|
| `CONFIG_LWIP_IP_REASS_MAX_PBUFS` | 10 | **20** | More IP fragment reassembly buffers |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_LOOPBACK_MAX_PBUFS` | 8 | **16** | Increased loopback buffer capacity |

#### TCP Buffer Sizes

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Modified | Rationale |
|--------------|-----------------|----------|-----------|
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCP_SND_BUF_DEFAULT` | 5760 | **32768** | Larger send buffer for better throughput |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCP_WND_DEFAULT` | 5760 | **32768** | Larger receive window for better performance |

#### Mailbox Sizes

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Modified | Rationale |
|--------------|-----------------|----------|-----------|
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_RECVMBOX_SIZE` | 32 | **64** | Larger TCP/IP task mailbox for message handling |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCP_RECVMBOX_SIZE` | 6 | **64** | TCP receive mailbox for better concurrency |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCP_ACCEPTMBOX_SIZE` | 6 | **16** | More pending TCP accept connections |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_UDP_RECVMBOX_SIZE` | 6 | **128** | Increased UDP receive mailbox for EtherNet/IP messaging |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCP_OOSEQ_MAX_PBUFS` | 4 | **12** | More out-of-sequence TCP packet buffers |

#### Task Configuration

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Modified | Rationale |
|--------------|-----------------|----------|-----------|
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_TASK_STACK_SIZE` | 3072 | **8192** | Increased stack for OpENer and ACD processing |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_TASK_PRIO` | 18 | **12** | Adjusted priority for EtherNet/IP requirements |

### Task Affinity Configuration

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Modified | Rationale |
|--------------|-----------------|----------|-----------|
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_TASK_AFFINITY_NO_AFFINITY` | y (default) | **n** | Disabled no-affinity mode |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_TASK_AFFINITY_CPU0` | n (default) | **y** | Pin LWIP TCP/IP task to Core 0 |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_TASK_AFFINITY` | 0x7FFFFFFF (no affinity) | **0x0** | Explicit Core 0 affinity |

**Rationale**: Pins LWIP TCP/IP task to Core 0, centralizing network processing for predictable performance. I/O tasks are unpinned and distributed across both cores by the scheduler.

### IRAM Optimization

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Modified | Rationale |
|--------------|-----------------|----------|-----------|
| `CONFIG_LWIP_IRAM_OPTIMIZATION` | n | **y** | Places RX/TX functions in IRAM (~10KB) |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_EXTRA_IRAM_OPTIMIZATION` | n | **y** | Places TCP functions in IRAM (~17KB) |

**Total IRAM Usage**: ~27KB for LWIP optimizations

**Rationale**: Improves network performance by avoiding flash cache misses, especially important for real-time EtherNet/IP communication.

### ACD and DHCP Configuration

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Modified | Rationale |
|--------------|-----------------|----------|-----------|
| `CONFIG_LWIP_DHCP_DOES_ACD_CHECK` | n (default: ARP check) | **y** | Enable ACD checking for DHCP-assigned addresses |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_AUTOIP` | n | **y** | Required for ACD support |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_AUTOIP_MAX_CONFLICTS` | 9 | **9** | No change (ESP-IDF default) |

### Other Configuration

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Modified | Rationale |
|--------------|-----------------|----------|-----------|
| `CONFIG_LWIP_SO_REUSE` | y | **y** | No change (ESP-IDF default) |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_SO_REUSE_RXTOALL` | y | **y** | No change (ESP-IDF default) |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_STATS` | n | **y** | Enable statistics for debugging |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_ESP_GRATUITOUS_ARP` | y | **y** | No change (ESP-IDF default) |
| `CONFIG_LWIP_NETIF_LOOPBACK` | y | **y** | No change (ESP-IDF default) |

---

## Build Configuration Changes

### CMakeLists.txt

**File Path**: `CMakeLists.txt` (project root)

**Changes Made**:

1. **Added FD_SETSIZE Definition** (around line 30-34):
   ```cmake
   # Define FD_SETSIZE for LWIP_MAX_SOCKETS=64
   # LWIP_SOCKET_OFFSET = FD_SETSIZE - MAX_SOCKETS, and we need LWIP_SOCKET_OFFSET >= 6
   # So FD_SETSIZE >= MAX_SOCKETS + 6 = 64 + 6 = 70
   # Also need room for stdout, stderr, stdin (+3), so use 73 for safety
   add_compile_definitions(FD_SETSIZE=73)
   ```

**Rationale**: Required when `LWIP_MAX_SOCKETS > 61`. Ensures sufficient file descriptor space for sockets and console I/O. Without this, build fails with static assertion error.

**Impact**: 
- `LWIP_SOCKET_OFFSET = 73 - 64 = 9` (meets >= 6 requirement)
- File descriptors 0-8 reserved for non-socket descriptors
- File descriptors 9-72 available for LWIP sockets

---

## ACD Timing Configuration

### Configured ACD Timings

All ACD timing constants are configurable via ESP-IDF Kconfig. Current configured values (can be optimized for EtherNet/IP):

| Constant | Value (ms) | Equivalent | Description |
|----------|------------|------------|-------------|
| `PROBE_WAIT` | 200 | 0.2 seconds | Initial random delay before probing (`CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PROBE_WAIT_MS`) |
| `PROBE_MIN` | 200 | 0.2 seconds | Minimum delay between probe packets (`CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PROBE_MIN_MS`) |
| `PROBE_MAX` | 200 | 0.2 seconds | Maximum delay between probe packets (`CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PROBE_MAX_MS`) |
| `PROBE_NUM` | 3 | packets | Number of probe packets to send (`CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PROBE_NUM`) |
| `ANNOUNCE_WAIT` | 2000 | 2 seconds | Delay before announcing (`CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_ANNOUNCE_WAIT_MS`) |
| `ANNOUNCE_NUM` | 4 | packets | Number of announcement packets (`CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_ANNOUNCE_NUM`) |
| `ANNOUNCE_INTERVAL` | 2000 | 2 seconds | Time between announcement packets (`CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_ANNOUNCE_INTERVAL_MS`) |
| `DEFEND_INTERVAL` | 90000 | 90 seconds | Minimum interval between defensive ARPs (`CONFIG_OPENER_ACD_PERIODIC_DEFEND_INTERVAL_MS`) |

**Note**: These values are optimized for EtherNet/IP and differ from RFC 5227 defaults (which use 1000 ms for probe intervals and 2 packets for announcements).

### Configuration via ESP-IDF Kconfig

Timing values are configured via ESP-IDF Kconfig options (accessible via `idf.py menuconfig` under "OpENer Configuration" → "ACD Configuration"). Values are specified in milliseconds.

**Current Configuration**:
- Probe intervals: 200 ms (faster than RFC 5227 default of 1000 ms)
- Announcements: 4 packets (more than RFC 5227 default of 2 packets)
- Defend interval: 90 seconds (longer than RFC 5227 default of 10 seconds)

**Rationale**: These values are optimized for EtherNet/IP requirements:
- Faster probe intervals (200 ms) reduce IP assignment time
- More announcements (4 packets) improve network visibility
- Longer defend interval (90 seconds) matches Rockwell PLC behavior and reduces network traffic

---

## Task Affinity Configuration

### LWIP TCP/IP Task

**Configuration**: Pinned to Core 0

**Settings**:
- `CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_TASK_AFFINITY_CPU0=y`
- `CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_TASK_AFFINITY=0x0`

**Rationale**: 
- Centralizes network processing on one core
- Reduces inter-core communication overhead
- Provides predictable, low-latency network performance
- I/O tasks (sensor managers) are unpinned and distributed across both cores by the scheduler

### OpENer Task

**Configuration**: Pinned to Core 0 (via code modification)

**File**: `components/opener/src/ports/ESP32/opener.c`

**Change**: Modified task creation to use `xTaskCreatePinnedToCore()`:

```c
BaseType_t result = xTaskCreatePinnedToCore(opener_thread,
                                             "OpENer",
                                             OPENER_STACK_SIZE,
                                             netif,
                                             OPENER_THREAD_PRIO,
                                             &opener_task_handle,
                                             0);  // Core 0
```

**Rationale**: 
- Keeps EtherNet/IP stack and OpENer on same core
- Reduces context switching overhead
- Improves cache locality for network operations

---

## Summary of Changes

### Files Modified in LWIP Source Tree

1. ✅ **MODIFIED**: `lwip/src/include/lwip/acd.h`
2. ✅ **MODIFIED**: `lwip/src/core/ipv4/acd.c`
3. ✅ **MODIFIED**: `lwip/src/core/netif.c`
4. ✅ **MODIFIED**: `lwip/src/include/lwip/prot/acd.h`
5. ✅ **MODIFIED**: `port/include/lwipopts.h`

### Configuration Summary

#### Performance Increases (ESP-IDF Default → Configured)

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Configured | Increase |
|---------------|-----------------|------------|----------|
| **Sockets** (`CONFIG_LWIP_MAX_SOCKETS`) | 10 | 64 | +540% |
| **Active TCP** (`CONFIG_LWIP_MAX_ACTIVE_TCP`) | 16 | 64 | +300% |
| **Listening TCP** (`CONFIG_LWIP_MAX_LISTENING_TCP`) | 16 | 32 | +100% |
| **UDP PCBs** (`CONFIG_LWIP_MAX_UDP_PCBS`) | 16 | 128 | +700% |
| **TCP Send Buffer** (`CONFIG_LWIP_TCP_SND_BUF_DEFAULT`) | 5760 bytes | 32768 bytes | +469% |
| **TCP Window** (`CONFIG_LWIP_TCP_WND_DEFAULT`) | 5760 bytes | 32768 bytes | +469% |
| **TCP/IP Stack** (`CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_TASK_STACK_SIZE`) | 3072 bytes | 8192 bytes | +167% |

#### Mailbox Increases (ESP-IDF Default → Configured)

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Configured | Increase |
|---------------|-----------------|------------|----------|
| **TCP/IP Recv** (`CONFIG_LWIP_TCPIP_RECVMBOX_SIZE`) | 32 | 64 | +100% |
| **TCP Recv** (`CONFIG_LWIP_TCP_RECVMBOX_SIZE`) | 6 | 64 | +967% |
| **TCP Accept** (`CONFIG_LWIP_TCP_ACCEPTMBOX_SIZE`) | 6 | 16 | +167% |
| **UDP Recv** (`CONFIG_LWIP_UDP_RECVMBOX_SIZE`) | 6 | 128 | +2033% |
| **TCP OOSEQ** (`CONFIG_LWIP_TCP_OOSEQ_MAX_PBUFS`) | 4 | 12 | +200% |

#### Buffer Increases (ESP-IDF Default → Configured)

| Configuration | ESP-IDF Default | Configured | Increase |
|---------------|-----------------|------------|----------|
| **IP Reassembly** (`CONFIG_LWIP_IP_REASS_MAX_PBUFS`) | 10 | 20 | +100% |
| **Loopback** (`CONFIG_LWIP_LOOPBACK_MAX_PBUFS`) | 8 | 16 | +100% |

#### New Features

- ✅ Configurable ACD timings
- ✅ Task affinity control (Core 0)
- ✅ IRAM optimization enabled
- ✅ Active IP defense with periodic ARP probes
- ✅ EtherNet/IP conflict reporting integration
- ✅ Reduced ACD diagnostic logging (conflicts only)

### Build Requirements

- **FD_SETSIZE**: Must be >= 70 when `LWIP_MAX_SOCKETS=64`
- **Current Setting**: `FD_SETSIZE=73` (defined in `CMakeLists.txt`)

### Backward Compatibility

- ✅ All changes are backward compatible
- ✅ ACD timing overrides are optional

---

## Verification

### Build Verification

1. **FD_SETSIZE Check**: Build should complete without static assertion errors
2. **ACD Compilation**: Verify `LWIP_ACD=1` in build output

### Runtime Verification

1. **Task Affinity**: Check that LWIP and OpENer tasks run on Core 0
2. **ACD Functionality**: Test static IP assignment with ACD enabled
3. **Performance**: Monitor network throughput and latency

### Configuration Verification

```bash
# Check sdkconfig values
grep "CONFIG_LWIP" sdkconfig | grep -E "(MAX_|SIZE|STACK)"

# Check build configuration
grep "LWIP_ACD" build/config/sdkconfig.h
grep "FD_SETSIZE" build/config/sdkconfig.h
```

---

## References

- **RFC 5227**: IPv4 Address Conflict Detection - https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5227
- **EtherNet/IP Conflict Reporting**: See `docs/ACD_CONFLICT_REPORTING.md` for implementation details
- **ACD Testing Guide**: `ReadmeACD.md` (if present)

---

## Maintenance Notes

### Upgrading ESP-IDF

When upgrading ESP-IDF, these modifications will need to be reapplied:

1. **Source Code Changes**: All files in `components/lwip/` directory
2. **Configuration**: `sdkconfig` file (can be merged/updated)
3. **Build Config**: `CMakeLists.txt` (FD_SETSIZE definition)

### Recommended Approach

1. **Component Override**: Current approach uses `components/lwip/` local override
   - Modifications persist across ESP-IDF updates
   - No need to reapply patches to ESP-IDF installation
   - All modifications are documented in this file
2. **Version Compatibility**: Document any ESP-IDF version-specific changes
3. **Testing**: Test thoroughly after ESP-IDF upgrades
4. **Manual Reapplication**: When upgrading ESP-IDF, manually reapply modifications by following the code changes documented in this file

---

**Document Version**: 1.0  
**Status**: Current Implementation  
**Project**: ESP32-P4 OpENer EtherNet/IP Stack
